>> Maximiliano Firtman: You should know,
for doing this workshop,
something about Vanilla JavaScript.
But just in case, the idea of Vanilla
JavaScript is the usage of the core
language and browser APIs to create web
apps without any additional library or
framework on top, okay?
Sometimes then we can extend this
definition and some people add the idea.
Yeah, you can use microframeworks or
microlibraries, which is okay.
But it's mainly saying that we're creating
a web app that is not React-based,
it's not Angular-based, not Vue-based,
not Next.js-based, etc.
Okay, now, that's the idea, right?
So we will just using HTML, CSS,
and JavaScript, that's all.
And if you don't have enough experience
with Vanilla JavaScript, I recommend you
the Vanilla JavaScript: You Might Not Need
a Framework course at Frontend Masters.
That will give you the insights of that.
In fact, one of the projects
that we will be using today and
applying some design patterns to it
is the outcome of that workshop.
So if you wanna see how to create
that workshop from scratch,
you can follow that course.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So for
Vanilla JavaScript web apps,
we can apply classic design patterns.
Where are those classic, typically
designed patterns, coming from that book,
from the Gang of Four?
We can still take that book and
we are not going to cover or
talk about the 23 design patterns that
are there cuz it doesn't make any sense.
But we can take some of those.
For example, I mentioned so
far singleton, factory.
Those two design patterns
are coming from that book, okay,
from the Gang of Four Design Patterns.
Then we can start thinking about
solving problems that are web-specific.
Of course, every platform,
every software development platform
has its own list of design patterns.
It's not the same to create the the web
app, that you create a VR game, or
if you're creating an Android application,
of course,
the problems that we have are different.
So that's why on every category
of app that you're creating,
you will find also a list of design
patterns for that specific platform, okay?
So we will talk about specific design
patterns that we can apply on the web
that are not useful on a desktop
application, on a backend application.
We will then get into the umbrella,
let's say,
of single page applications,
multi page applications as well, and
data and state management as categories
of design patterns that we can use or
we can apply when we
are talking about web apps.
So as I mentioned before,
we are not going to cover all
the design patterns available.
First, because there is
no finite list anywhere.
So there is no list of, these are all
the design patterns available.
We can take that book and say, okay,
those are the initial 23 design patterns,
okay, but there are more design patterns.
And every day,
a new design pattern is born.
And also, we may take a month, actually,
to cover most of the design
patterns out there.
The whole idea is for
you to understand the most important ones.
And then you will be ready to go and
find design pattern somewhere and
try to understand, okay, I understand the
idea, just try to implement this as well.